# Red, Blue, and Green$$
CIS4500 Project

Problem: In wake of the recent presidential election between Donald Trump and Kamala Harris, our idea for this project was motivated by our experience living in Pennsylvania - a critical swing state in this past cycle. We have all been targeted with a flurry of political ads over the past few months ranging from smear campaigns on opposition candidates to testimonies from local citizens to calls to action almost begging us to come out to vote. And naturally in the backdrop of all this political action, is a large sum of money trying to dictate the result of the election. Something that was also interesting to us was the proliferation of texts from Harris and Trump campaigns asking for donations. We set out to see how much the impact of individual contributions influences the outcome of an election and how it varies by state.

Application Functionality: Our application is an interactive dashboard that allows users to visualize the relationship between campaign contributions and election outcomes. It provides features such as state-wise analysis, occupation based outcomes, and contributions by city, and company by company analysis. 


Queries: We explored the connections between campaign contributions and election outcomes using a range of queries. For example, we calculated the cost per vote for each candidate by state, compared overall spending between political parties, and identified the top occupations contributing to campaigns. We also analyzed contribution trends in swing states, looked at electoral votes by state, and evaluated spending efficiency by examining cost per vote across various states and candidates. Additionally, we analyzed contributions by employer and occupation to gain deeper insights into the sources of campaign funding.
